# s3-md5-hash

This repo was created using `sam init` from the [AWS SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/sam-cli-command-reference-sam-init.html) using the built-in Step Functions sample app (Stock Trader) template.

## Deployment

First install the [SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html). Then run the following to build the Lambda functions:

```bash
sam build
```

> Note: You must run this even if you only change the template.yaml

To deploy, run the following:

```bash
sam deploy --guided
```

This will package and deploy your application to AWS, with prompts:

* **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
* **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
* **Parameter eventSourceBucket**: The bucket for which to enable tagging objects with their md5sum.
* **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
* **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
* **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

```bash
s3-md5-hash$ sam logs -n $FUNCTION_NAME --stack-name $STACK_NAME --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Linting and Tests

Linting and tests are set up via tox. Install the dev dependencies then run tox with the appropriate arguments.

```bash
s3-md5-hash$ pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
# Run linting
s3-md5-hash$ tox -e lint
# Run unit tests
s3-md5-hash$ tox -e py38 -- -k "unit"
# integration test, requires deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
s3-md5-hash$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> tox -e py38 -- -k "integration"
```

## Cleanup

First, delete all objects in the CloudTrail bucket. it should have a name of the form `${STACK_NAME}-cloudtrailbucket-XXXX`. Then, delete the CloudFormation stack:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name $STACK_NAME --region $REGION --profile $PROFILE
```
